hi everyone my name is telithia slightly
different than the voice of god
pronounces but i don't mind because it's
a little bit of a tricky name people
call me tk
i'm the chief revenue officer at a
company called gusto which is a late
stage startup based in denver new york
and san francisco and like the rest of
us pretty much everywhere at this point
and we serve small and medium-sized
businesses with everything they need to
take care of their teams to hire onboard
reward take care of the best possible
teams so that they can have great
businesses
so i was asked to come here today to
talk to you about a topic i get asked
about a lot
which is how to create high performing
and sustainable partnerships between
your marketing leaders and your sales
leaders
so prior to having the opportunity to be
the chief revenue officer at gusto
i was our cmo for about four years
most of my background is actually in
marketing
which tends to be a different path for a
sas company cro
but i want to talk to you today about
opening your minds and thinking about
how you can hire and empower
great performing marketing and sales
leaders
my goal in coming here today is the same
goal i have when i take calls
from ceos co-founders vcs investors who
are interested in solving the same
puzzle
and i have the opportunity to be asked
for my advice on that quite frequently
so of course when i got asked to do it
for a group of people at once i thought
well that is highly efficient marketing
let me get right on that
i have no other ulterior motive here
but to help you find great marketing and
sales leaders
because my real motivation is to help
them be seen empowered and make a
difference in tech
and in sas in particular
these opinions are mine they're highly
biased
they do come from some experience
and a little bit of a track record of
success
and they also come from a long long
career
in which i have observed tech
fumble quite a bit if i'm honest
about having great operators
in the mix alongside great innovators
so with that
what is the puzzle
why do we hire marketing leaders and
they flame out in eight months to a year
for our sales leaders
why is she perpetually frustrated and in
tension with her marketing counterpart
you can go online and read all about it
and this puzzle is something that i
definitely want
to help you
not be burdened by
so i apologize in advance but i'm going
to do something completely predictable
i would like a hand raising exercise
which obviously doesn't work great on
the stream but thanks i'm glad you came
and so if you wouldn't mind raise your
hand if you're somebody who currently or
in the near term
has to hire a marketing or sales
executive for your firm
sweet
awesome okay i'm going to really try to
make this relevant to you
now put your hand up of that group
if you yourself have ever been a
marketing or sales executive in the past
sweet that i didn't expect good job that
shows to me that sas is maturing
and you're going to be fine and in fact
this talk may be boring for you
everyone who has to hire those
executives and wasn't in that last group
with direct experience
you should network the folks that just
raise their hands you should buy them
beverages
and pick their brains
so i want to try to give you tips in two
chunks
first how to hire
and then how to empower
the hiring piece sucks right now let's
be honest
the supply demand quotient's a little
bit off
so 10 000
on linkedin in the u.s 10 000 open chief
sales officer
um positions
i took this like a week ago 430 433
brand new i don't know what that means
but anyway it's happening
i doubt that there's 10 000 good chief
sales officers in the united states of
america if i'm honest
and on the marketing side just as bad
so you're trying to de-risk your
company's hiring decision
and part of the way you do that is you
tell your recruiting firm i want someone
with a solid track record
if they've been happy
in their marketing career
then i don't have any data evidence
that they actually can drive impact and
be a strategic strategic contributor to
my business
but that just shrinks your pool further
and it doesn't honor the fact that the
problem of marketing leadership tenure
and effectiveness
is a two-way street maybe a three-way
street
when we talk about tips to better
empower leaders this is where i get
really jazzed
i googled why sales and marketing don't
get along
first result harvard of course i'm sure
it's brilliant because it's harvard good
but look up ahead of that
7 billion results
one article for almost every human on
the planet
about why we were destined to fight
ridiculous
all right tip number one
hiring
don't believe the hype
don't believe the seven billion pages
this problem is surmountable
if you start this hiring exercise and if
you empower your leadership team
with the premise that you're going to
have to make compromises sometimes when
we're hiring we say
well what is the most important thing to
solve for
and then we'll work around the rest
if you go into a recruiting exercise
with that in mind
you will only attract candidates
who expect to thrive
in an environment of compromise
the whole theme of this talk if you want
a mnemonic to remember anything i've
said today
is you get what you give
your attitude going into it your belief
in being able to find the most
successful and sustainable partnership
leading your marketing and sales
organizations
is critical to your success from the
get-go
we can smell
your fear
so don't give it to us
number two
if your earlier stage you might not be
ready yet that's cool start networking
look in your network if everyone you
know
is in engineering or product or finance
expand your network
the trick here is not you're not looking
for your future marketing or sales
leader
necessarily
you're not asking them how to find the
right person and demand the right amount
of effort and the right quality from
them
you're asking your network how you need
to change
how your company needs to change
to attract the right talent and set them
up for success
tip three
the recruiting environment is brutal
and i know a lot of excellent recruiters
but what i'm getting
every week
and many of the talented candidates you
want to attract are getting
is a slew of mad libs in our inbox
they almost all start exactly the same
way my ceo
asked me to reach out to you
well if you think i'm strategic ceo
you should reach out to me your damn
self
he has an incredible track record of
exits
i sort of am interested in that but it's
certainly not the place to start
great marketing and sales talent and
again we're looking for sustainability
and true company value creation
they don't want to exit
that's not success
yes do i like making money 100
do i like companies having more of their
own ability to control their own destiny
and not be in a fundraising
rat race of course
but we're not trying to get out of
something that we haven't even built yet
the other thing to be careful about is
saying that this is the first hire
it might in fact be like don't lie
obviously
but
it's not necessarily
the most important qualifier for a good
opportunity
we
are pretty flexible for the most part or
at least the candidates you probably
should be talking to are pretty flexible
if we have enough
road behind us on our journey we can
adapt and you want us to be gritty and
adaptable
you might have a team are they the right
team maybe maybe not that's okay
we don't know going in
whether or not we'll have a seat at the
table
so mention that
whether or not you will give us time to
build what we need to build so mention
that but us being the first is as risky
as it is interesting
we've raised a ton of money
and we're worth a ton of money
disaster may be the wrong place to say
this
but a lot of people can raise a lot of
money
doesn't necessarily mean that's a good
job for me
what i care much more about is growth
rate that's that's our dna
we want to grow revenue we want to grow
market share we want to deepen wallet
share that's what gets us motivated
tell me about that
category creation is tossed around a lot
it's hard to know what we mean by that
sometimes it sends a signal that we have
no product market fit
that's a not necessarily a red flag
plenty of great marketing and sales
leaders are interested in opportunities
where we have to find fit remember we're
distribution
finding fit reaching the market that's
what we like to do
the market is huge billions up for grabs
i would say if you really want to hire
great ambitious
operators and business people into your
firms
don't talk to them about tam too much
because you don't sound like you've done
the math actually
you're looking for us because you need
help with distribution
when you're early as a startup
distribution is not tactics it's
strategy
you actually don't know necessarily and
your finance people don't know
and your investors certainly don't know
how much of that tam is serviceable
gettable and what the economics are
going to look like
that's why you're hiring us
so cool it a little bit on the tam
we're poised for disruption we have
these investors
one comment on investors it's really
twicky uh tricky
and i mean this with a lot of love we
have
somewhere north of 450 000 investors in
gusto
we
start to tune it out a little bit unless
there's someone we know
and how do most of us professionals know
vc's investors
from working at companies that work with
them
or from reading
the media
it can go either way
and a lot of times investors can be
super helpful
at gusto i have our board
on speed dial
when i need help
they're there for me
they challenge us
but that isn't always the case
it might be interesting
especially if some folks on your board
or some of your investors they
themselves are previous executives
running sales or marketing organizations
what that sends to me as a positive
signal
is that i'll have a voice of reason and
a partner in helping the business
understand whether or not i'm actually
demonstrating progress
towards results
here are some suggestions instead
so
reach out directly
if you really care sends an immediate
signal
that this is important to you
talk about what you're doing for
customers
always lead with that
always
so far we've been able to reach so many
customers
i'm going to be able to do a quick calc
of where you are on the pmf spectrum
we're doing pretty well with this type
of customer
i start to feel
and believe what the opportunity is
but
we can't get here we're not doing there
we don't know why
we're not resonating with x
i'm starting to puzzle
through
whether or not i can make an impact
it's an incredible way to get me to want
to know more
and this is just a general good practice
so reaching out to a candidate what are
the stats on it is not that they
actually each individual one is going to
be your best long-term gain game changer
but they might know something that you
don't know
so respect their time signal
you get what you give signal
that you don't know everything
that they may know something you don't
and you would really benefit if they
would donate 30 minutes of their time to
you
of course that can lead to a referral as
well
now tip number four in hiring and this
is the last hiring tip
is really to understand your model
so who's seen the weird animal thing
here that i'm showing
have people seen that right okay classic
so
there are some
pretty standard conventional ideas
that are logical
and i think are pretty guiding
so you know if you are a business where
you're going to be product led growth or
you have a large market and a low acv
marketing is very
important
that's a strategic business leader
they you should make them be responsible
for revenue
and you should have them really have
some voting authority in how you build
out your entire revenue organization
including sales and sales leadership
the flip side chief sales officers and
revenue officers are vital as you are
going after elephants in this case
that is a little bit of a flip same
principles apply
but what do you do if you don't know
what if you don't know where you're
going to land and at gusto for example
we've got rabbits and mice and fleas
so how do we puzzle through that
there's some signs that cross models
these are my
unmathematical opinions
first
for sales leaders
without getting into stereotyping
they're excellent at relationships
typically individually and through how
they lead their teams
brilliant
those relationship skills need to be
repeatable
or you are dependent on individual
humans
related to that one of the best methods
for repeatability in sales greatness is
to focus on moving the middle up
there is a very lazy sometimes effective
intention folks have of putting a big
egg out there
and letting very competitive very
talented very motivated sales folks
chase it and get that lambo
that to me has been debunked and
outdated
you want your sales organization just
like every other team in your company to
be playing the long game in terms of
your company value
so look for sales leaders
that can balance
their competitive nature and their
interest in their own wealth creation
with true company value as the mechanism
by which they win those games
related to that rule of 40 or something
like it the cost of revenue growth
and the economics of
revenue growth
have to be the natural language of your
sales leaders
if they're enamored by valuation you've
got the wrong leader
now we're experts in valuation
especially in sas where for better or
for worse revenue growth ties directly
to valuation almost 100 percent of the
time
we are the experts we do it every day we
know whether or not the company's
creating value
i have a model
that i use to estimate my retirement
date
i know that's pretty nerdy
but
valuation will not be
increased
if we don't know how to economically get
there from a revenue growth perspective
inspiration goes without saying
but look for leaders who inspire
customers
of course they have to inspire the team
and sales leaders can
should and i would argue must
be experimentally
solid of course we won't have a b
statsig
in all of our enterprise sales
experiments that we do
it's the mindset of hypothesis
identification and the good
old-fashioned scientific method
how will i know what signals will i use
to triangulate that we're headed in the
right path
and you'll also then attract a sales
leader who can speak the same language
with a lot of your more technical
engineering growth data science votes
second
marketing leaders that are durable
we all know this everybody knows this if
they're only focused on budget not roi
goodbye
if they're only focused on getting leads
and how many leads they can get
goodbye
i suggest you look for marketing folks
who talk to you consistently about ltv
to cap
we're in a recurring subscription
business
our customer value and the cohort of
customers we acquire
is going to change over time we all want
it to increase
how is your marketing leader looking at
current investments net present value as
a ratio of the future revenue and profit
they will create for your firm if they
don't know what you're talking about
pass
brand awareness has been super trendy
among startups especially ceos and
especially more technical founders and
ceos lately i get asked about it all the
time
people may disagree with me
but for
ten eight years
i studied the science of brand
measurement
i had the opportunity to do this in a
company that was spending 100 and 200
million dollars a year on advertising
against a consumer audience
and we were able to get scientific
signals
we started being able to get those
signals once we were spending more than
40 million dollars consistently every
year
if you're not anywhere near that scale
don't worry about it
focus on your viral coefficients
how many of your customers are referring
new business how much business shows up
your at your front door that you didn't
actively source
that's the volume that tells you that
you're building awareness and affinity
and then
for marketing leaders same principle
applies
they have to inspire customers and
prospects
they also need to inspire
the stakeholders within the business
you got to get jazzed by somebody who's
talking about spending a bunch of your
money
and they also need to be experimentally
solid
if you don't yet know what your model is
going to be which little animal you're
going to chase
i have some potentially
counter-intuitive suggestions
you probably then actually need more
experience in the leaders that you hire
there's this concept of a full stack
marketer
or an adaptable sales leader
the problem with full stack
is most likely
unless they're super high level
they've never gone deep on much
so be wary of that concept
of course you want someone who's going
to get their hands dirty
but of course you don't want someone
who's just regurgitating playbooks
beware of them saying we're going to
implement this on an accelerated
timeline
they're trying to get to motions not
impact output not impact
always back channel your candidates for
someone who flies at multiple altitudes
simultaneously
if you don't know your model you can
solve for the chemistry between your
marketing and sales leaders
and this isn't a bad strategy because
you actually have no idea going in where
the divisions of rules and
responsibilities will actually flow
and pay him a lot
i know this sounds crazy like why would
you say that we are offering you know
fractions of percentage points and
equity and upside and retirement and and
you know houseboats or that's what i'm
looking for
but the reality is to get a more
experienced person to leave a lot
of highly likely money on the table if
they're at a public company or late
stage company right now you got to
de-risk it
because we know the tenure
is 8 to 12 months
why why would any intelligent roi
calculator
want to take a risk that big unless
you've helped me de-risk it
you can make it performance-based
you will attract talent that has
confidence and has analyzed your
business opportunity for their ability
to make impact
but don't rely on equity alone
this i hope has become
something that is well understood
for
10 or 15 years we were in a period where
tech companies tech ceos were really
frustrated with the caliber of the
marketing and sales talent they could
get in the mix
and a lot of it honestly had to do
with an environment that i will call out
as consisting of several
microaggressions
so i have been in situations where i
have been complimented to an engineering
team
introduced as saying lithia is a
marketing person but she speaks like a
finance person
if your marketing people don't speak
like finance people
pass
we
who can help you
will want to be
respected
for the unique abilities we bring
this is logic
and yet sometimes still
this get gets missed
all right so how do you empower great
leaders
i'm going faster i'm worthy 25 minutes
when fast
expect impact it's okay you can demand
of us that we are showing you progress
the excuse of the sales cycle is long
the excuse from the marketing leader
that it's going to take time to build
all these campaigns and get awareness in
the market
that is not
a valid excuse
for
avoiding showing progress month to month
to month we have a pipeline how are we
closing more of it how are we closing it
faster we have some leads how are we
increasing velocity or success through
the funnel demand every month
positive progress
make both
own revenue
and ultimately measured to ltv
there is such a tendency for us as
executives to want to simplify to say
you know what i'm going to hold you
accountable for that and you accountable
for that
healthy tension duke it out
maximum growth wrong i believe wrong
you want leaders who co-own
revenue ltv
cap performance
both should be great pitchers
both spend time with customers both
influence product both can run
experiments
and both can drive merchandising
and you should speak to them
as a unit and hold them accountable for
these things
and related to that expect them to be
experts
let us be leaders if we have a seat at
your leadership table
it's really simple
expect greatness don't signal just like
you didn't when you were hiring us
that you have low expectations
or you will find that you only have
sustainable relationships with
executives who can deliver against low
expectations
simple wording sometimes goes a long way
i've got an idea why don't we just we
hear this all the time as sales leaders
and marketing leaders
how else might you say that
you might just say
i need us to get here
come back to me with a plan
be careful about benchmarks
we are marketers and sellers and when we
put content on medium
we are very calculated
when we talk about how brilliant we were
be skeptical
so as i said start with the impact you
want us to deliver
let us work back to how
not the other direction
excluding some of you who actually have
done the deed
let us be peers so if you have marketing
and sales stacked which works in a lot
of organizations
still set the table for both of us in
your leadership team
still have both in your planning and
strategy sessions
this is so important
it's mostly because then you can see the
chemistry
and you can hold both parties
accountable for those shared outcomes
and yes
fire
quickly so
the math sucks it's so hard to hire
ten years are short
pretty soon into a job six months
usually is the freak out point
we know if things are going well or not
if you wait much longer than that you're
18 months from any ramp of the next
candidate you're going to hire
you've got to be aggressive when you're
confident
that there's a problem
a suggestion on how
to save or know that you can't
the marriage
have a family meeting classic
smallest group possible say you're
concerned
give them the combined shared partner
opportunity to work it out and come back
to you to your satisfaction best
solutions always come from within the
relationship
number two let's say that doesn't work
which function is performing better
if you have strong next line leaders
definitely
keep that leader in place they have
built a high performing team that will
continue to scale
and lastly take bold action
if there are fire them
full stop
because the current marriage being bumpy
is just a predictor of the next one
all right last tip
i i wrote this slide like whatever a
couple weeks ago
and then i thought this is not what i
really i'm trying to be nice my comms
guy said be positive
if i could give you
anything i would give you this stop
using go to market
it sends exactly the wrong signals
it gets you to hire and empower people
who are going to wait for product to
build something
and then locally optimized
go to market
suggests to us
that we're not part of the entire
strategy of the company
that you didn't hire us because you need
someone to help you figure out how to
distribute
and every product team i guarantee every
product team is hungry for more feedback
from those of us who spend time with
customers and buyers regularly
this sounds like an activity that
happens after a more important activity
just retire it
[Music]
you